Pages: 192-194

HOURS
	CS Core = 0
	KA Core = 40

MSF-Calculus
KA Core:
1. Sequences, series, limits
2. Single-variable derivatives: definition, computation rules (chain rule etc.), derivatives of important
functions, applications
3. Single-variable integration: definition, computation rules, integrals of important functions,
fundamental theorem of calculus, definite vs indefinite, applications (including in probability)
4. Parametric and polar representations
5. Taylor series
6. Multivariate calculus: partial derivatives, gradient, chain-rule, vector valued functions,
7. Optimization: convexity, global vs local minima, gradient descent, constrained optimization, and
Lagrange multipliers.
8. Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs): definition, Euler method, applications to simulation, Monte
Carlo integration
9. CS applications: gradient descent for machine learning, forward and inverse kinematics,
applications of calculus to probability
Note: the calculus topics listed above are aligned with computer science goals rather than with
traditional calculus courses. For example, multivariate calculus is often a course by itself, but computer
science undergraduates only need parts of it for machine learning.
Illustrative Learning Outcomes:
KA Core:
1. Sequences, series, limits
a. Explain the difference between infinite sets and sequences.
b. Explain the formal definition of a limit.
c. Derive the limit for examples of sequences and series.
d. Explain convergence and divergence.
e. Apply L’Hospital’s rule and other approaches to resolving limits.
2. Single-variable derivatives: definition, computation rules (chain rule etc.), derivatives of important
functions, applications
a. Explain a derivative in terms of limits.
b. Explain derivatives as functions.
c. Perform elementary derivative calculations from limits.
d. Apply sum, product, and quotient rules.
e. Work through examples with important functions.
3. Single-variable integration: definition, computation rules, integrals of important functions,
fundamental theorem of calculus, definite vs indefinite, applications (including in probability)
a. Explain the definitions of definite and indefinite integrals.
b. Apply integration rules to examples with important functions.
c. Explore the use of the fundamental theorem of calculus.
d. Apply integration to problems.
4. Parametric and polar representations
a. Apply parametric representations of important curves.
b. Apply polar representations.
5. Taylor series
a. Derive Taylor series for some important functions.
b. Apply the Taylor series to approximations.
6. Multivariate calculus: partial derivatives, gradient, chain-rule, vector valued functions, applications
to optimization, convexity, global vs local minima.
a. Compute partial derivatives and gradients.
b. Work through examples with vector-valued functions with gradient notation.
c. Explain applications to optimization.
7. ODEs: definition, Euler method, applications to simulation
a. Apply the Euler method to integration.
b. Apply the Euler method to a single-variable differential equation.
c. Apply the Euler method to multiple variables in an ODE.