Pages: 177-178

HOURS
	CS Core = 2
	KA Core = 2

HCI-Accessibility: Accessibility and Inclusive Design
CS Core:
1. Background (See also: SEP-DEIA, SEP-Security)
a. Societal and legal support for and obligations to people with disabilities
b. Accessible design benefits everyone
2. Techniques
a. Accessibility standards (e.g., Web Content Accessibility Guidelines) (See also: SPD-Web)
3. Technologies (See also: SE-Tools)
a. Features and products that enable accessibility and support inclusive development by
designers and engineers
4. IDFs (Inclusive Design Frameworks) (See also: SEP-DEIA)
a. Recognizing differences
5. Universal design
KA Core:
6. Background
a. Demographics and populations (permanent, temporary, and situational disability)
b. International perspectives on disability (See also: SEP-DEIA)
c. Attitudes towards people with disabilities (See also: SEP-DEIA)
7. Techniques
a. UX (user experience) design and research
b. Software engineering practices that enable inclusion and accessibility. (See also: SEP-DEIA)
8. Technologies
a. Examples of accessibility-enabling features, such as conformance to screen readers
9. Inclusive Design Frameworks
a. Creating inclusive processes such as participatory design
b. Designing for larger impact
Non-core:
10. Background (See also: SEP-DEIA)
a. Unlearning and questioning
b. Disability studies
11. Technologies: the Return On Investment (ROI) of inclusion
12. Inclusive Design Frameworks: user-sensitive inclusive design (See also: SEP-DEIA)
13. Critical approaches to HCI (e.g., inclusivity) (See also: SEP-DEIA)
Illustrative Learning Outcomes:
CS Core:
1. Identify accessibility challenges faced by people with different disabilities and specify the associated
accessible and assistive technologies that address them. (See also: AI-Agents, AI-Robotics)
2. Identify appropriate inclusive design approaches, such as universal design and ability-based
design.
3. Identify and demonstrate understanding of software accessibility guidelines.
4. Demonstrate recognition of laws and regulations applicable to accessible design.
KA Core:
5. Apply inclusive frameworks to design, such as universal design and usability and ability-based
design, and demonstrate accessible design of visual, voice-based, and touch-based UIs.
6. Demonstrate understanding of laws and regulations applicable to accessible design.
7. Demonstrate understanding of what is appropriate and inappropriate high level of skill during
interaction with individuals from diverse populations.
8. Analyze web pages and mobile apps for current standards of accessibility.
Non-core:
9. Biases towards disability, race, and gender have historically, either intentionally or unintentionally,
informed technology design.
a. Find examples.
b. Consider how those experiences (learnings?) might inform design.
10. Conceptualize user experience research to identify user needs and generate design insights.
