Pages: 176

HOURS
	CS Core = 2
	KA Core = 2

HCI-Accountability: Accountability and Responsibility in Design
CS Core: (See also: SEP-Context)
1. Design impact
a. Sustainability (See also: SEP-Sustainability)
b. Inclusivity (See also: SEP-DEIA)
c. Safety, security and privacy (See also: SEP-Security, SEC-Foundations)
d. Harm and disparate impact (See also: SEP-DEIA)
2. Ethics in design methods and solutions (See also: SEP-Ethical-Analysis, SEP-Context, SEPIntellectual Property)
a. The role of artificial intelligence (See also: AI-SEP)
b. Responsibilities for considering stakeholder impact and human factors (See also: SEPProfessional-Ethics)
c. Role of design to meet user needs
3. Requirements in design (See also: SEP-Professional-Ethics)
a. Ownership responsibility
b. Legal frameworks, compliance requirements
c. Consideration beyond immediate user needs, including via iterative reconstruction of
problem analysis and “digital well-being” features
KA Core:
4. Value-sensitive design (See also: SEP-Ethical-Analysis, SEP-Context, SEP-Communication)
a. Identify direct and indirect stakeholders
b. Determine and include diverse stakeholder values and value systems.
5. Persuasion through design (See also: SEP-Communication)
a. Assess the persuasive content of a design
b. Employ persuasion as a design goal
c. Distinguish persuasive interfaces from manipulative interfaces
Illustrative Learning Outcomes:
CS Core:
1. Identify and critique the potential impacts of a design on society and relevant communities to
address such concerns as sustainability, inclusivity, safety, security, privacy, harm, and disparate
impact.
KA Core:
2. Identify the potential human factor elements in a design.
3. Identify and understand direct and indirect stakeholders.
4. Develop scenarios that consider the entire lifespan of a design, beyond the immediately planned
uses that anticipate direct and indirect stakeholders.
5. Identify and critique the potential factors in a design that impact direct and indirect stakeholders and
broader society (e.g., transparency, sustainability of the system, trust, artificial intelligence).
6. Assess the persuasive content of a design and its intent relative to user interests.
7. Critique the outcomes of a design given its intent.
8. Understand the impact of design decisions. 