Pages: 178-179

HOURS
	CS Core = 1
	KA Core = 2

HCI-Evaluation: Evaluating the Design
CS Core:
1. Methods for evaluation with users
a. Formative (e.g., needs-finding, exploratory analysis) and summative assessment (e.g.,
functionality and usability testing)
b. Elements to evaluate (e.g., utility, efficiency, learnability, user satisfaction, affective elements
such as pleasure and engagement)
c. Understanding ethical approval requirements before engaging in user research (See also: SETools, SEP-Ethical-Analysis, SEP-Security, SEP-Privacy, SEP-Professional-Ethics)
KA Core:
2. Methods for evaluation with users (See also: SE-Validation)
a. Qualitative methods (qualitative coding and thematic analysis)
b. Quantitative methods (statistical tests)
c. Mixed methods (e.g., observation, think-aloud, interview, survey, experiment)
d. Presentation requirements (e.g., reports, personas)
e. User-centered testing
f. Heuristic evaluation
g. Challenges and shortcomings to effective evaluation (e.g., sampling, generalization)
3. Study planning
a. How to set study goals
b. Hypothesis design
c. Approvals from Institutional Research Boards and ethics committees (See also: SEP-EthicalAnalysis, SEP-Security, SEP-Privacy)
d. How to pre-register a study
e. Within-subjects vs between-subjects design
4. Implications and impacts of design with respect to the environment, material, society, security,
privacy, ethics, and broader impacts. (See also: SEC-Foundations)
a. The environment
b. Material
c. Society
d. Security
e. Privacy
f. Ethics
g. Broader impacts
Non-core:
5. Techniques and tools for quantitative analysis
a. Statistical packages
b. Visualization tools
c. Statistical tests (e.g., ANOVA, t-tests, post-hoc analysis, parametric vs non-parametric tests)
d. Data exploration and visual analytics; how to calculate effect size.
6. Data management
a. Data storage and data sharing (open science)
b. Sensitivity and identifiability.
Illustrative Learning Outcomes:
CS Core:
1. Discuss the differences between formative and summative assessment and their role in evaluating
design
KA Core:
2. Select appropriate formative or summative evaluation methods at different points throughout the
development of a design.
3. Discuss the benefits of using both qualitative and quantitative methods for evaluation.
4. Evaluate the implications and broader impacts of a given design.
5. Plan a usability evaluation for a given user interface, and justify its study goals, hypothesis design,
and study design.
6. Conduct a usability evaluation of a given user interface and draw defensible conclusions given the
study design.
Non-core:
7. Select and run appropriate statistical tests on provided study data to test for significance in the
results.
8. Pre-register a study design, with planned statistical tests