Pages: 174-175

HOURS
	CS Core = 2
	KA Core = 5

HCI-User: Understanding the User: Individual goals and interactions with others
CS Core:
1. User-centered design and evaluation methods. (See also: SEP-Context, SEP-Ethical-Analysis,
SEP-Professional-Ethics)
a. “You are not the users”
b. User needs-finding
c. Formative studies
d. Interviews
e. Surveys
f. Usability tests
KA Core:
2. User-centered design methodology. (See also: SE-Tools)
a. Personas/persona spectrum
b. User stories/storytelling and techniques for gathering stories
c. Empathy maps
d. Needs assessment (techniques for uncovering needs and gathering requirements - e.g.,
interviews, surveys, ethnographic and contextual enquiry) (See also: SE-Requirements)
e. Journey maps
f. Evaluating the design (See also: HCI-Evaluation)
g. Interfacing with stakeholders, as a team
h. Risks associated with physical, distributed, hybrid and virtual teams
3. Physical and cognitive characteristics of the user
a. Physical capabilities that inform interaction design (e.g., color perception, ergonomics)
b. Cognitive models that inform interaction design (e.g., attention, perception and recognition,
movement, memory)
c. Topics in social/behavioral psychology (e.g., cognitive biases, change blindness)
4. Designing for diverse user populations. (See also: SEP-DEIA, HCI-Accessibility)
a. How differences (e.g., in race, ability, age, gender, culture, experience, and education)
impact user experiences and needs
b. Internationalization
c. Designing for users from other cultures
d. Cross-cultural design
e. Challenges to effective design evaluation. (e.g., sampling, generalization; disability and
disabled experiences)
f. Universal design
5. Collaboration and communication (See also: AI-SEP, SE-Teamwork, SEP-Communication, SPDGame)
a. Understanding the user in a multi-user context
b. Synchronous group communication (e.g., chat rooms, conferencing, online games)
c. Asynchronous group communication (e.g., email, forums, social networks)
d. Social media, social computing, and social network analysis
e. Online collaboration
f. Social coordination and online communities
g. Avatars, characters, and virtual worlds
Non-core:
6. Multi-user systems
Illustrative Learning Outcomes:
CS Core:
1. Conduct a user-centered design process that is integrated into a project.
KA Core:
2. Compare and contrast the needs of users with those of designers.
3. Identify the representative users of a design and discuss who else could be impacted by it.
4. Describe empathy and evaluation as elements of the design process.
5. Carry out and document an analysis of users and their needs.
6. Construct a user story from a needs assessment.
7. Redesign an existing solution to a population whose needs differ from those of the initial target
population.
8. Contrast the different needs-finding methods for a given design problem.
9. Reflect on whether your design would benefit from low-tech or no-tech components.
Non-core:
10. Recognize the implications of designing for a multi-user system/context.