Pages: 206-207

HOURS
	CS Core = 2
	KA Core = 0

OS-Purpose: Role and Purpose of Operating Systems
CS Core:
1. Operating systems mediate between general purpose hardware and application-specific software.
2. Universal operating system functions (e.g., process, user and device interfaces, persistence of
data)
3. Extended and/or specialized operating system functions (e.g., embedded systems, server types
such as file, web, multimedia, boot loaders and boot security)
4. Design issues (e.g., efficiency, robustness, flexibility, portability, security, compatibility, power,
safety, tradeoffs between error checking and performance, flexibility and performance, and security
and performance) (See also: SEC-Engineering)
5. Influences of security, networking, multimedia, parallel and distributed computing
6. Overarching concern of security/protection: Neglecting to consider security at every layer creates
an opportunity to inappropriately access resources.
 Example concepts:
a. Unauthorized access to files on an unencrypted drive can be achieved by moving the media to
another computer.
b. Operating systems enforced security can be defeated by infiltrating the boot layer before the
operating system is loaded.
c. Process isolation can be subverted by inadequate authorization checking at API boundaries.
d. Vulnerabilities in system firmware can provide attack vectors that bypass the operating system
entirely.
e. Improper isolation of virtual machine memory, computing, and hardware can expose the host
system to attacks from guest systems.
f. The operating system may need to mitigate exploitation of hardware and firmware
vulnerabilities, leading to potential performance reductions (e.g., Spectre and Meltdown
mitigations).
7. Exposure of operating systems functions in shells and systems programming. (See also: FPLScripting)
Illustrative Learning Outcomes:
CS Core:
1. Understand the objectives and functions of modern operating systems.
2. Evaluate the design issues in different usage scenarios (e.g., real time OS, mobile, server).
3. Understand the functions of a contemporary operating system with respect to convenience,
efficiency, and the ability to evolve.
4. Understand how evolution and stability are desirable and mutually antagonistic in operating
systems function.

