Pages : 168-169
CS Core : 20, KA Core : None

CS Core: 
1. Basic concepts such as variables, primitive data types, expressions, and their evaluation 
2. How imperative programs work: state and state transitions on execution of statements, flow of control 
3. Basic constructs such as assignment statements, conditional and iterative statements, basic I/O  
4. Key modularity constructs such as functions (and methods and classes, if supported in the language) and related concepts like parameter passing, scope, abstraction, data encapsulation (See also: FPL-OOP)
5. Input and output using files and APIs 
6. Structured data types available in the chosen programming language like sequences (e.g., arrays, lists), associative containers (e.g., dictionaries, maps), others (e.g., sets, tuples) and when and how to use them (See also: AL-Foundational) 
7. Libraries and frameworks provided by the language (when/where applicable) 
8. Recursion 
9. Dealing with runtime errors in programs (e.g., exception handling). 
10. Basic concepts of programming errors, testing, and debugging (See also:  SE-Construction, SEC-Coding)  
11. Documenting/commenting code at the program and module level.(See also:  SE-Construction)   
12. Develop a security mindset. (See also: SEC-Foundations) 

Illustrative Learning Outcomes:
CS Core:           
In these learning outcomes, the term "develop" means "design, write, test, and debug." 
1. Develop programs that use the fundamental programming constructs: assignment and expressions, basic I/O, conditional and iterative statements. 
2. Develop programs using functions with parameter passing.  
3. Develop programs that effectively use the different structured data types provided in the language like arrays/lists, dictionaries, and sets. 
4. Develop programs that use file I/O to provide data persistence across multiple executions.  
5. Develop programs that use language-provided libraries and frameworks (where applicable).  
6. Develop programs that use APIs to access or update data (e.g., from the web).  
7. Develop programs that create simple classes and instantiate objects of those classes (if supported by the language). 
8. Explain the concept of recursion and identify when and how to use it effectively. 
9. Develop recursive functions. 
10. Develop programs that can handle runtime errors. 
11. Read a given program and explain what it does. 
12. Write comments for a program or a module specifying what it does. 
13. Trace the flow of control during the execution of a program.  
14. Use appropriate terminology to identify elements of a program (e.g., identifier, operator, operand).