Pages:80-82

HOURS
	CS Core = 0
	KA Core = 0

AI-Robotics: Robotics
(See also: SPD-Robot)
Non-core:
1. Overview: problems and progress
a. State-of-the-art robot systems, including their sensors and an overview of their sensor
processing
81
b. Robot control architectures, e.g., deliberative vs reactive control and Braitenberg vehicles
c. World modeling and world models
d. Inherent uncertainty in sensing and in control
2. Sensors and effectors
a. Sensors: e.g., LIDAR, sonar, vision, depth, stereoscopic, event cameras, microphones, haptics,
b. Effectors: e.g., wheels, arms, grippers
3. Coordinate frames, translation, and rotation (2D and 3D)
4. Configuration space and environmental maps
5. Interpreting uncertain sensor data
6. Localization and mapping
7. Navigation and control
8. Forward and inverse kinematics
9. Motion path planning and trajectory optimization
10. Manipulation and grasping
11. Joint control and dynamics
12. Vision-based control
13. Multiple-robot coordination and collaboration
14. Human-robot interaction (See also: HCI-User, HCI-Accessibility)
a. Shared workspaces
b. Human-robot teaming and physical HRI
c. Social assistive robots
d. Motion/task/goal prediction
e. Collaboration and communication (explicit vs implicit, verbal or symbolic vs non-verbal or visual)
f. Trust
15. Applications and Societal, Economic, and Ethical Issues
a. Societal, economic, right-to-work implications
b. Ethical and privacy implications of robotic applications
c. Liability in autonomous robotics
d. Autonomous weapons and ethics
e. Human oversight and control
Illustrative Learning Outcomes:
(Note: Due to the expense of robot hardware, all of these could be done in simulation or
with low-cost educational robotic platforms.)
1. List capabilities and limitations of today's state-of-the-art robot systems, including their sensors and
the crucial sensor processing that informs those systems.
2. Integrate sensors, actuators, and software into a robot designed to undertake a specific task.
3. Program a robot to accomplish simple tasks using deliberative, reactive, and/or hybrid control
architectures.
4. Implement fundamental motion planning algorithms within a robot configuration space.
5. Characterize the uncertainties associated with common robot sensors and actuators; articulate
strategies for mitigating these uncertainties.
6. List the differences among robots' representations of their external environment, including their
strengths and shortcomings.
82
7. Compare and contrast at least three strategies for robot navigation within known and/or unknown
environments, including their strengths and shortcomings.
8. Describe at least one approach for coordinating the actions and sensing of several robots to
accomplish a single task.
9. Compare and contrast a multi-robot coordination and a human-robot collaboration approach and
attribute their differences to differences between the problem settings.
10. Analyze the societal, economic, and ethical issues of a real-world robotics application.