Pages:82-83

HOURS
	CS Core = 0
	KA Core = 0

AI-Vision: Perception and Computer Vision
Non-core:
1. Computer vision
a. Image acquisition, representation, processing, and properties
b. Shape representation, object recognition, and segmentation
c. Motion analysis
d. Generative models
2. Audio and speech recognition
3. Touch and proprioception
4. Other modalities (e.g., olfaction)
5. Modularity in recognition
6. Approaches to pattern recognition (See also: AI-ML)
a. Classification algorithms and measures of classification quality
b. Statistical techniques
c. Deep learning techniques
Illustrative Learning Outcomes:
1. Summarize the importance of image and object recognition in AI and indicate several significant
applications of this technology.
2. List at least three image-segmentation approaches, such as thresholding, edge-based and region-
based algorithms, along with their defining characteristics, strengths, and weaknesses.
3. Implement 2d object recognition based on contour-based and/or region-based shape
representations.
4. Distinguish the goals of sound-recognition, speech-recognition, and speaker-recognition and
identify how the raw audio signal will be handled differently in each of these cases.
5. Provide at least two examples of a transformation of a data source from one sensory domain to
another, e.g., tactile data interpreted as single-band 2d images.
6. Implement a feature-extraction algorithm on real data, e.g., an edge or corner detector for images
or vectors of Fourier coefficients describing a short slice of audio signal.
7. Implement an algorithm combining features into higher-level percepts, e.g., a contour or polygon
from visual primitives or phoneme hypotheses from an audio signal.
8. Implement a classification algorithm that segments input percepts into output categories and
quantitatively evaluates the resulting classification.
9. Evaluate the performance of the underlying feature-extraction, relative to at least one alternative
possible approach (whether implemented or not) in its contribution to the classification task (8),
above.
83
10. Describe at least three classification approaches, their prerequisites for applicability, their strengths,
and their shortcomings.
11. Implement and evaluate a deep learning solution to problems in computer vision, such as object or
scene recognition.