Pages:108-109

HOURS
	CS Core = 0
	KA Core = 2

AR-Quantum: Quantum Architectures
KA Core:
1. Principles (See also: AL-Models: 8)
a. The wave-particle duality principle
b. The uncertainty principle in the double-slit experiment
c. What is a Qubit? Superposition, interference, and measurement. Photons as qubits
d. Systems of two qubits, Entanglement, Bell states, The No-Signaling theorem
2. Axioms of QM: superposition principle, measurement axiom, unitary evolution
3. Single qubit gates for the circuit model of quantum computation: X, Z, H
4. Two qubit gates and tensor products, working with matrices
5. The No-Cloning Theorem. The Quantum Teleportation protocol
6. Algorithms (See also: AL-Foundational)
a. Simple quantum algorithms: Bernstein-Vazirani, Simon’s algorithm
b. Implementing Deutsch-Josza with Mach-Zehnder Interferometers
c. Quantum factoring (Shor’s Algorithm)
d. Quantum search (Grover’s Algorithm)
7. Implementation aspects (See also: SPD-Interactive)
a. The physical implementation of qubits
b. Classical control of a Quantum Processing Unit (QPU)
c. Error mitigation and control, NISQ and beyond
109
d. Measurement approaches
8. Emerging Applications
a. Post-quantum encryption
b. The Quantum Internet
c. Adiabatic quantum computation (AQC) and quantum annealing
Illustrative Learning Outcomes:
KA Core:
1. Discuss how a quantum object produced as a particle propagates like a wave and is detected as a
particle with a probability distribution corresponding to the wave.
2. Discuss the quantum-level nature that is inherently probabilistic.
3. Express your view on entanglement that can be used to create non-classical correlations, but there
is no way to use quantum entanglement to send messages faster than the speed of light.
4. Describe quantum parallelism and the role of constructive vs destructive interference in quantum
algorithms given the probabilistic nature of measurement(s).
5. Analyze a code snippet providing the role of quantum Fourier transform (QFT) in Shor’s algorithm.
6. Write a program to implement Shor’s algorithm in a simulator, highlighting the classical components
and aspects of Shor’s algorithm.
7. Enumerate the specifics of each qubit modality (e.g., trapped ion, superconducting, silicon spin,
photonic, quantum dot, neutral atom, topological, color center, electron-on-helium).
8. Contrast AQC with the gate model of quantum computation and the problems each is better suited
to solve.