Pages:91-93

HOURS
	CS Core = 6
	KA Core = 3

AL-Complexity: Complexity
CS Core:
1. Complexity Analysis Framework
a. Best, average, and worst-case performance of an algorithm
b. Empirical and relative (Order of Growth) measurements
c. Input size and primitive operations
d. Time and space efficiency
2. Asymptotic complexity analysis (average and worst-case bounds)
a. Big-O, Big-Omega, and Big-Theta formal notations
b. Foundational Complexity Classes and Representative Examples/Problems
i. O(1) Constant (e.g., array access)
ii. O(log2 n) Logarithmic (e.g., binary search)
iii. O(n) Linear (e.g., linear search)
iv. O(n log2 n) Log Linear (e.g., mergesort)
v. O(n2) Quadratic (e.g., selection sort)
vi. O(nc) Polynomial (e.g., O(n3) Gaussian elimination)
vii. O(2n) Exponential (e.g., Knapsack, Satisfiability (SAT),
Traveling Sales-Person (TSP), all subsets)
viii. O(n!) Factorial (e.g., Hamiltonian circuit, all permutations)
3. Empirical measurements of performance
4. Tractability and intractability
a. P, NP, and NP-Complete Complexity Classes
b. NP-Complete Problems (e.g., SAT, Knapsack, TSP)
c. Reductions
5. Time and space tradeoffs in algorithms
92
KA Core:
6. Little-o, Little-Omega, and Little Theta notations
7. Formal recursive analysis
8. Amortized analysis
9. Turing Machine-based models of complexity
a. Time complexity
i. P, NP, NP-C, and EXP classes
ii. Cook-Levin theorem
b. Space Complexity
i. NSpace and PSpace
ii. Savitch’s theorem
Illustrative Learning Outcomes:
CS Core:
1. Prepare a presentation that explains to first year students the basic concepts of algorithmic
complexity including best, average, and worst-case algorithm behavior, Big- O, Omega, and Theta
notations, complexity classes, time and space tradeoffs, empirical measurement, and impact on
practical problems.
2. Using examples, explain each of the foundational complexity classes in this unit.
3. For each foundational complexity class in this unit, explain an algorithm that demonstrates the
associated runtime complexity.
4. For each algorithm in the AL-Foundational unit, explain its runtime complexity class and why it
belongs to this class.
5. Informally evaluate the foundational complexity class of simple algorithms.
6. Given a problem to program for which there may be several algorithmic approaches, evaluate them
and determine which are feasible, and select one that is optimal in implementation and run-time
behavior.
7. Develop empirical studies to determine and validate hypotheses about the runtime complexity of
various algorithms by running algorithms on input of various sizes and comparing actual
performance to the theoretical analysis.
8. Explain examples that illustrate time-space tradeoffs of algorithms.
9. Explain how tree balance affects the efficiency of binary search tree operations.
10. Explain to a non-technical audience the significance of tractable versus intractable algorithms using
an intuitive explanation of Big-O complexity.
11. Explain the significance of NP-Completeness.
12. Explain how NP-Hard is a lower bound and NP is an upper bound for NP-Completeness.
13. Explain examples of NP-complete problems.
KA Core:
14. Use recurrence relations to evaluate the time complexity of recursively defined algorithms.
15. Apply elementary recurrence relations using a form of the Master Theorem.
16. Apply Big-O notation to give upper case bounds on time/space complexity of algorithms.
17. Explain the Cook-Levin Theorem and the NP-Completeness of SAT.
93
18. Explain the classes P and NP.
19. Prove that a problem is NP-Complete by reducing a classic known NP-C problem to it (e.g., 3SAT
and Clique).
20. Explain the P-space class and its relation to the EXP class.