Pages : 211-212
CS Core : 3, KA Core : 2

Computers, the internet, and artificial intelligence - perhaps more than any other technologies - have transformed society over the past several decades, with dramatic increases in human productivity; an explosion of options for news, entertainment, and communication; and fundamental breakthroughs in almost every branch of science and engineering. It is imperative to recognize that this is not a one-way street. Society also affects computing, resulting in a complex socio-technical context that is constantly changing, requiring the perspective of history to put the present as well as the possible future into appropriate perspective.  
Social Context provides the foundation for all other knowledge units in SEP, particularly Professional Ethics. 

CS Core: 
1. Social implications (e.g., political and cultural ideologies) in a hyper-networked world where the capabilities and impact of social media, artificial intelligence, and computing in general are rapidly evolving. 
2. Impact of computing applications (e.g., social media, artificial intelligence applications) on individual well-being, and safety of all kinds (e.g., physical, emotional, economic). 
3. Consequences of involving computing technologies, particularly artificial intelligence, biometric technologies, and algorithmic decision-making systems, in civic life (e.g., facial recognition technology, biometric tags, resource distribution algorithms, policing software) and how human agency and oversight is crucial. 
4. How deficits in diversity and accessibility in computing affect society and what steps can be taken to improve equity in computing. 

KA Core: 
5. Growth and control of the internet, data, computing, and artificial intelligence 
6. Often referred to as the digital divide, differences in access to digital technology resources and its resulting ramifications for gender, class, ethnicity, geography, and/or developing countries, including consideration of responsibility to those who might be less wealthy, under threat, or who would struggle to have their voices heard. 
7. Accessibility issues, including legal requirements such as Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21) 
8. Context-aware computing  
 
Illustrative Learning Outcomes: 
CS Core: 
1. Describe the different ways that computer technology (networks, mobile computing, artificial intelligence) mediates social interaction at the personal and collective levels. 
2. Identify developers’ assumptions and values embedded in hardware and software design, especially as they pertain to usability for diverse populations including under-served and those with disabilities.  
3. Interpret the social context of a given design and its implementation.  
4. Analyze the efficacy of a given design and implementation using empirical data.  
5. Understand the implications of technology use (e.g., social media) for different identities, cultures, and communities. 
 
KA Core: 
6. Describe the internet’s role in facilitating communication between citizens, governments, and each other.  
7. Analyze the effects of reliance on computing in the implementation of democracy (e.g., delivery of social services, electronic voting).  
8. Describe the impact of a lack of appropriate representation of people from historically minoritized populations in the computing profession (e.g., industry culture, product diversity).  
9. Discuss the implications of context awareness in ubiquitous computing systems.  
10. Express how access to the internet and computing technologies affect different societies.  
11. Identify why/how internet access can be viewed as a human right. 